New Update User Guide - Geoprocessing Tools section (#9496)
geosolutions-it/MapStore2: docs/user-guide/geoprocessing-tool.md

# GeoProcessing Tool

This tool allows to perform geographic operations using one or more layers and saving the result of the operations as new layers.

!!! note
    The **GeoProcessing Tool** is not included by default in the MapStore configuration but it can be configured within an [application contexts](application-context.md#configure-plugins) if needed.

By clicking the **GeoProcessing Tool** <img src="../img/button/geoprocessing-button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button, available in the [Side Toolbar](mapstore-toolbars.md#side-toolbar), a panel opens so that the user can choose the geographic operations between **Buffer** and **Intersection**.

<img src="../img/geoprocessing-tool/geoprocessing-panel.jpg" class="ms-docimage" width="400px"/>

## Buffer tool

The **Buffer** tool allows to create a buffer around the input geometries and when it is selected, the user can:

> * Select a layer from the **Source Layer** option drop down menu. The dropdown will show the layers available for the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select a layer from the **Source Layer** option drop down menu. The dropdown shows the layers available for the process from the ones present in TOC
```

> * Select one of the layer's features from the **Source Feature**. The feature can be selected directly by the dropdown menu or from the map, activating the <img src="../img/button/add_marker_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select one of the layer features from the **Source Feature** option. The feature can be selected from the dropdown menu or directly clicking on map by activating the <img src="../img/button/add_marker_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button.
```

<video class="ms-docimage" controls><source src="../img/geoprocessing-tool/select-buffer-feature.mp4"/></video>

> * Insert the desired **Distance** for the buffer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Insert the desired **Distance** for the buffer (supported are _m_ and _km_).
```

> The editor can now click <img src="../img/button/run_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> to start the process and generate the new buffer layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When all mandatory process parameters have been provided, it is possible to click on  <img src="../img/button/run_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button to start the process to generate and visualize the buffer layer.
```

<video class="ms-docimage" controls><source src="../img/geoprocessing-tool/run_buffer-layer.mp4"/></video>

> The buffer layer is now present in the [TOC](toc.md) and visible in the map viewer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The buffer layer is added in [TOC](toc.md) inside a new group created for the purpose.
```

### Advanced Settings

> Enabling the *Advanced options* the editor can include the following to the *Buffer* operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling the *Advanced options* the user can include further (not mandatory) parameters for the *Buffer* process:
```

<img src="../img/geoprocessing-tool/buffer-advanced-options.jpg" class="ms-docimage" width="400px" />

* Enter the **Quadrant Segments**, that is the number of line segments used to approximate a quarter circle.

* Select the **Style for the buffer end caps** choosing between `Round`, `Flat` or `Square`

## Intersection tool

> Once the **Intersection** has been chosen as a process, the editor can select a layer to intersect from the **Source Layer** option drop down menu and one of the layer's features from the **Source Feature** option drop down menu or, enable the <img src="../img/button/add_marker_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button that gives the possibility to select the *Feature* directly from the map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once **Intersection** is selected as a process to be used from the first dropdown, the user can also select the layer to use as **Source Layer** for the intersection as well as the layer to be intersected with the given source (**Intersection Layer** option). For both options it is possible to select a feature to use for the intersection process; this is possible by enabling the <img src="../img/button/add_marker_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> buttons in order to select the layer features directly with a click on the map. If no layer feature is provided for one of the to layer options, the operation will be performed on the entire layer.
```

> Once the **Intersection** has been chosen as a process, the editor can select a layer to intersect with the following operations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can then:
```

* Select the **Source Layer** from the drop down menu.

> * Select the layer's features from the **Source Feature**. The feature can be selected directly from the drop down menu or by clicking on the map, activating the <img src="../img/button/add_marker_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select the layer feature from the **Source Feature**. The feature can be selected from the drop down menu or by clicking directly on the map by activating the <img src="../img/button/add_marker_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button
```

<video class="ms-docimage" controls><source src="../img/geoprocessing-tool/select-feature.mp4"/></video>

In the same way it is possible to select the **Intersection Layer** and the corresponding **Intersection Feature** to obtain the new intersected layer by clicking on <img src="../img/button/run_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button.

<video class="ms-docimage" controls><source src="../img/geoprocessing-tool/run_intersection-layer.mp4"/></video>

> The new layer, result of the intersection of the features selected, will be added to the [TOC](toc.md) and visible in the map viewer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new layer, result of the intersection of the features selected, will be added to the [TOC](toc.md) inside a dedicated group and visible in the map viewer.
```

<img src="../img/geoprocessing-tool/intersection-layer.jpg" class="ms-docimage" />

### Advanced Settings

> Enabling the *Advanced options* the editor can include the following to the *Intersection* operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling the *Advanced options* the user can include further (not mandatory) parameters for the *Intersection* process:
```
